---
description: Run various commands when developing your documentation site.
sidebar_label: Run in development
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Run your doc site in development

Docusaurus is a React-based project and uses npm and or Yarn project workflows.
This page describes `npm` commands to start previews, lint, build, and do other necessary
things in development.

:::note
Periodically run `npm install` before running Docusaurus to install or update dependencies.
:::

## npm commands and scripts

The following is a list of npm scripts in `package.json`.

### `npm run start`

Runs Docusaurus locally on port [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to preview the site.
Supports automatic refresh when changes are made.
This is usually used in development while making changes to Markdown or certain configuration files.

:::note
Not all changes made are supported by the automatic refresh and may require restarting the command.
:::

### `npm run build`

Builds Docusaurus for production into the `./build` directory of the root folder of this project.

It's usually not necessary to do this in development and is usually only used by CI when building to
be deployed.

:::caution
There's an [open issue](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/3678) regarding proper and
stable CSS insertion ordering that may differ between `npm run start` and `npm run build` results.

This is usually not an issue and can be mitigated with adding `!important` to CSS styles.
:::

### `npm run build:docs`

If you use the `docusaurus-plugin-openapi-docs` plugin for integrating OpenAPI to your docs, this
command cleans existing generated Markdown API docs and re-generates them.

This command is bundled into the `npm run build` command.

You can safely remove this script from the `package.json` if you're not using the plugin.

### `npm run swizzle`

[Swizzles](https://docusaurus.io/docs/swizzling) a component.
Swizzling allows more advanced customization of React components in Docusaurus beyond simple CSS modifications.

### `npm run deploy`

[Deploys](https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment#deploying-to-github-pages) your Docusaurus project.

:::note
You don't need to use this command for your doc site.
:::

### `npm run clear`

Removes all generated assets, caches, or build artifacts.
If you have issues running `npm run start`, we recommend using this command.

### `npm run serve`

Serves the files generated by the build output from the `./build` directory for local viewing.
Run this after the `npm run build` command.

:::note
Since `npm run build` is for production building or debugging production build issues, you don't need
to use `npm runs serve` except in those cases.
:::

### `npm run write-translations`

Only needed where [translations](https://docusaurus.io/docs/cli#docusaurus-write-translations-sitedir)
are to be added.

### `npm run write-heading-ids`

Only needed where [translations](https://docusaurus.io/docs/cli#docusaurus-write-heading-ids-sitedir)
are to be added.

### `npm run typecheck`

Typechecks with TypeScript and `tsconfig.json`.

### `npm run typecheck-staged`

Typechecks _staged-only_ files which is used by `lint-staged` when committing.

### `npm run lint`

Combined command which includes spell check, JS/TS linting, and CSS linting.

### `npm run lint:js`

Lints JS/TS with ESLint.

### `npm run lint:spelling`

Checks spelling using [CSpell](../configure/spell-check.md).

:::tip Add new words to the dictionary
If you use a word in your content that's not known to the linter, your build or commit fails.
If the word that the linter caught is correctly spelled, and you wish it to pass the linter's test,
add it to `project-words.txt`.
:::

### `npm run lint:style`

Lints CSS files with specific styling.

### `npm run lint:fix`

Passes the `--fix` CLI argument to `npm run lint:js` to attempt to fix issues.

### `npm run format`

Runs Prettier to format code before commit for consistency in the repo.
